README.md, before:

# Spring Kafka micrometer

Example project to play around with Spring Kafka Micrometer.

Versions used in this project:

* Spring Boot: 2.1.0
* Spring Kafka: 2.2.0.RELEASE
* Micrometer: 1.1.0

## How to build the project

```
./mvnw clean package
```

## How to run this project

Make sure to set the environment variable `DOCKER_HOST_IP` to the ip of the host running the 
Docker containers using docker-compose.

On Linux you can get the correct IP from docker0 interface by executing: ifconfig
In my case `DOCKER_HOST_IP=172.17.0.1`

If you are using Docker for Mac <= 1.11, or Docker Toolbox for Windows (your docker machine IP is usually 192.168.99.100)

```
docker-compose up -d
```

Start the producer:

```
cd spring-kafka-producer
mvn spring-boot:run
``` 

The producer will publish a Hello World message to topic: hello-world-messages

Start the consumer:

```
cd
mvn spring-boot:run
``` 

How the consumer metrics:

[http://localhost:8081/metrics/](http://localhost:8081/metrics/)

Kafka metrics are visible.

See specific Kafka metrics:

[http://localhost:8081/actuator/metrics/kafka.consumer.records.consumed.total](http://localhost:8081/actuator/metrics/kafka.consumer.records.consumed.total)

```json
{
  name: "kafka.consumer.records.consumed.total",
  description: "The total number of records consumed.",
  baseUnit: "records",
  measurements: [
    {
      statistic: "COUNT",
      value: "NaN"
    }
  ],
  availableTags: [
    {
      tag: 'client.id',
      values: [
        "spring-kafka-consumer-hello-world-app"
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

My Question why is the value of `COUNT` `NaN`?

```json
{
  measurements: [
    {
      statistic: "COUNT",
      value: "NaN"
    }
  ]
}
```


## Kafka manager 

Part of the `docker-compose` setup is the Kafka Manager.
To get more insight in the broker, topics and more you can use this tool.

* Open [http://localhost:9000](http://localhost:9000)
* Create a Kafka cluster view [http://localhost:9000/addCluster](http://localhost:9000/addCluster)

![](/documentation/images/kafka-manager-create-cluster.png)

Commit message:

Update to micrometer 1.1.1 because of Kakfa consumer metrics fix see: https://github.com/micrometer-metrics/micrometer/issues/983

README.md, after:

# Spring Kafka micrometer

Example project to play around with Spring Kafka Micrometer.

Versions used in this project:

* Spring Boot: 2.1.0
* Spring Kafka: 2.2.0.RELEASE
* Micrometer: 1.1.0

## How to build the project

```
./mvnw clean package
```

## How to run this project

Make sure to set the environment variable `DOCKER_HOST_IP` to the ip of the host running the 
Docker containers using docker-compose.

On Linux you can get the correct IP from docker0 interface by executing: ifconfig
In my case `DOCKER_HOST_IP=172.17.0.1`

If you are using Docker for Mac <= 1.11, or Docker Toolbox for Windows (your docker machine IP is usually 192.168.99.100)

```
docker-compose up -d
```

Start the producer:

```
cd spring-kafka-producer
mvn spring-boot:run
``` 

The producer will publish a Hello World message to topic: hello-world-messages

Start the consumer:

```
cd
mvn spring-boot:run
``` 

How the consumer metrics:

[http://localhost:8081/metrics/](http://localhost:8081/metrics/)

Kafka metrics are visible.

See specific Kafka metrics:

[http://localhost:8081/actuator/metrics/kafka.consumer.records.consumed.total](http://localhost:8081/actuator/metrics/kafka.consumer.records.consumed.total)

```json
{
  name: "kafka.consumer.records.consumed.total",
  description: "The total number of records consumed.",
  baseUnit: "records",
  measurements: [
    {
      statistic: "COUNT",
      value: "NaN"
    }
  ],
  availableTags: [
    {
      tag: 'client.id',
      values: [
        "spring-kafka-consumer-hello-world-app"
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

My Question why is the value of `COUNT` `NaN`?

```json
{
  measurements: [
    {
      statistic: "COUNT",
      value: "NaN"
    }
  ]
}
```

This [issue](https://github.com/micrometer-metrics/micrometer/issues/983) has been fixed in Micrometer version 1.1.1 see 
[commit](https://github.com/micrometer-metrics/micrometer/commit/e9b3efeb42681120dd46b1145f0d682f8569bc28)

## Kafka manager 

Part of the `docker-compose` setup is the Kafka Manager.
To get more insight in the broker, topics and more you can use this tool.

* Open [http://localhost:9000](http://localhost:9000)
* Create a Kafka cluster view [http://localhost:9000/addCluster](http://localhost:9000/addCluster)

![](/documentation/images/kafka-manager-create-cluster.png)
